This new section is about regular expression methods.
We are discussing methods used with the regular expression class.
We have already used a few methods to try modifiers, qualifiers and character classes.
But now we will learn the individual method in detail.
The first method we are looking at is the x SC method.
Along with this method we are going to learn about last index property as well.
The syntax of this method is that we give the pattern because this method is applied on the pattern.
So we say pattern dot.
The method name and the string in which you want to perform the search.
Let's try it practically.
I'll create a variable.
Creating a pattern where I want to search.
There is word.
Let's try to display the value.
So here we are trying to search for the word is and the matter has returned the first match.
Now I just want that X should find the next occurrence as well.
So let's add one more XY to find the second occurrence.
I will say console.log.
As you see in the output, it has returned the same word.
So if we want that it should search for the next word, then we will add the slash g modifier.
So let's add it and see the output.
Now it returns the desired output.
What XY actually does is when we give slash g modifier, it searches for the first occurrence in the
first call and then it stores the next search index in a property called last index.
So in this case it found there is word on the second index and the word is of length to.
So from the fourth index, the next search will begin to confirm.
Let's try to print the value of last index property before the second exec matters execution.
I will add the last index.
I'll say console.log.
Last index and pattern at last index.
Now, you can make out that every time X executes it returns the source value and stores.
Next, search is starting position in a property called last index.
Let's try to print last index for all XY and also add to more x methods.
I'm adding the last index property before every XY execution.
Now let's run the code and understand the output.
First, last index is zero.
So that is the position from where the FCC started searching.
It found its word on second position and length is two.
So next last index is four.
That is, it will start searching from fourth position.
It found the next is word on fifth position and length is two.
So next search will begin from seventh position.
And this goes on, of course, for the last search that is no match.
So at the end it returns null here.
Instead of keeping the XY multiple times, we can certainly use a loop which searches till the end of
string.
Let's convert the above coding more logical where we put a loop which repeats xy until null.
So what will I do?
I will remove all the console.log at the moment.
I will declare a variable.
Let's say result is equal to space.
Now I'm going to put a loop here.
I will say while result is not null, I want to do something.
What I want to do.
I want to first print the last index.
Then I'll execute the XY and whatever is returned that I'll store in the result variable.
And let's try to print the value of result.
Let's run the code.
Now you see that this code looks better and the output is the same as the previous output.
Last index is a kind of property that is not only a read only property.
You can also set this property to decide from which position the search should begin.
Let's try one of the codes which we have seen where we were displaying last index.
Let's run the code again without setting last index.
Here is the code.
So here in the output, we saw earlier also that the search started from the zeroth index and first
is word was found on second position.
Now let's try to set last index on the fourth position.
That is, I do not want to begin the search from zero to index, but I want to start the search from
fourth position.
Let's try that and run the code.
I will say pattern dot last index is equal to four.
Now the output shows that the search started from fourth position.
So the first is word is found on index five instead of two.
As we saw in the previous output.